en,zh: Add release notes for v1.3.0 (#1637)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/releases/release-1.3.0.md

---
title: TiDB Operator 1.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB Operator 1.3.0 Release Notes

> Release date: February 12, 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: February 15, 2022
```

TiDB Operator version: 1.3.0

## Compatibility Change

> - Due to changes in [#4400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4400), if deploying TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters by TiDB Operator v1.3.0-beta.1 or earlier, upgrading TiDB Operator to v1.3.0 directly will cause failed rolling upgrading. You have to upgrade TiDB Operator by following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Due to changes in [#4400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4400), if a TiDB cluster is deployed across multiple Kubernetes clusters by TiDB Operator (<= v1.3.0-beta.1), upgrading TiDB Operator to v1.3.0 directly will cause failed rolling upgrade. You have to upgrade TiDB Operator by the following steps:
```

    1. Update CRD.

>     2. Add new `spec.acrossK8s` as `true` in TidbCluster spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Add a new `spec.acrossK8s` field in TidbCluster spec and set it to `true`.
```

    3. Upgrade TiDB Operator.

## New Features

> - Add new field `spec.tidb.tlsClient.skipInternalClientCA` to skip server certificate verification when internal components access TiDB ([#4388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4388), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a new field `spec.tidb.tlsClient.skipInternalClientCA` to skip server certificate verification when internal components access TiDB ([#4388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4388), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))
```

> - Support configuring DNS config for Pods of all components ([#4394](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4394), [@handlerww](https://github.com/handlerww))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support configuring DNS for Pods of all components ([#4394](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4394), [@handlerww](https://github.com/handlerww))
```

Author: 这里是 配置 DNS 配置，configuring DNS 感觉意思不一样

Reviewer: OK.

> - Add new field `spec.tidb.initializer.createPassword` to support setting a random password for TiDB when deploying new cluster ([#4328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4328), [@mikechengwei](https://github.com/mikechengwei))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a new field `spec.tidb.initializer.createPassword` to support setting a random password for TiDB when deploying a new cluster ([#4328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4328), [@mikechengwei](https://github.com/mikechengwei))
```

> - Add new field `failover.recoverByUID` to support one-time recover for TiKV/TiFlash/DM Worker ([#4373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4373), [@better0332](https://github.com/better0332))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a new field `failover.recoverByUID` to support one-time recover for TiKV/TiFlash/DM Worker ([#4373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4373), [@better0332](https://github.com/better0332))
```

> - Add new field `sepc.pd.startUpScriptVersion` to use `dig` command not `nslookup` to lookup domain in startup script of PD ([#4379](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4379), [@july2993](https://github.com/july2993))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a new field `sepc.pd.startUpScriptVersion` to use the `dig` command instead of `nslookup` to lookup domain in the startup script of PD ([#4379](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4379), [@july2993](https://github.com/july2993))
```

## Improvements

> - Pre-check if VolumeMount is exist when deploy or update StatefuleSet of components to aovid failed rolling upgrade ([#4369](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4369), [@july2993](https://github.com/july2993))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pre-check whether `VolumeMount` exists when the StatefuleSet of components is deployed or updated to avoid failed rolling upgrade ([#4369](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4369), [@july2993](https://github.com/july2993))
```

> - Improve the feature deploying TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enhance the feature of deploying a TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters:
```

>     - Add new field `spec.acrossK8s` to indicate deploying TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters ([#4400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4400), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add a new field `spec.acrossK8s` to indicate deploying a TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters ([#4400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4400), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))
```

    - Support deploying heterogeneous TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters ([#4387](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4387), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

>     - The field `spec.clusterDomain` isn't required when deploying TiDB cluster across Kubernetes clusters, the field is only used for addresses accessed between components ([#4408](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4408), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The field `spec.clusterDomain` is not required when TiDB cluster is deployed across Kubernetes clusters. The field is only used for addresses accessed between components ([#4408](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4408), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))
```

>     - Fixed the issue that Pump become abnormal when the PDs of one Kubernetes cluster are all down in across Kubernetes deployment ([#4377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4377), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that in cross-Kubernetes deployment, Pump becomes abnormal when all PDs of one Kubernetes cluster are down ([#4377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4377), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))
```

## Bug fixes

> - Fix the issue that tidb scheduler can't be deployed in Kubernetes v1.23 or later ([#4386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4386), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that tidb scheduler cannot be deployed in Kubernetes v1.23 or later versions ([#4386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4386), [@just1900](https://github.com/just1900))
```
